It is the time of year again for the Oscar nominations, which also means the Oscar Death Race is upon us. Every year, a group of film nerds try to watch all the nominated films in each category before the ceremony. Like last year, I am one of those nerds who will be watching many movies before February 24th. I plan to write my thoughts on each Oscar nominated film I watch throughout the month. This week I saw five Oscar nominated films. Here are my thoughts:

### The Wife ###
The Wife is basically 100 minutes of elderly people doing elderly things, individuals shaking hands, people screaming at one another, actors delivering poorly written lines, and Glen Close delivering a solid performance. The film's script is by far the worst aspect of the film. It is extremely predictable. I foresaw every "twist" coming a mile away. The dialogue ironically enough is extremely stilted and awkward at times. There are so many lines that had me rolling my eyes and thinking, "really the writer couldn't think of any better dialogue than this…;" many of the scenes were either frustrating or annoying, particularly the flashback scenes. I would guess about half the scenes contained either characters screaming at each other or the main characters introducing themselves to other random people that are never seen in the film again. There is also an annoying journalist character, who is supposed to be bothersome, but gosh, he was not fun to watch. All of this and a good helping of forced social commentary make for an unenjoyable time. The only real good thing I can say about the film was that the performances of Glen Close and Jonathan Pryce were good. Glen in particular was good at portraying her emotion through facial expression and body language. Despite the decent performances, I would not recommend this movie to anyone except maybe my grandma and her friends. ★★

### Minding the Gap ###
After the first 10 minutes of Minding the Gap, I began to wonder why this film was nominated for an Oscar for best Documentary. How could a skateboarding documentary made by a young filmmaker be that great? Well, I was very wrong. This film about skateboarding covered many different issues, including child abuse, drug/alcohol abuse, poverty, teen parenting, racial prejudice/stereotypes, and much more. The documentary did an extraordinary job connecting the audience to the people shown in the film and empathizing with their experiences. The film caused me to think about my life and how fortunate I have been to avoid many of the problems that the young adults in the film have faced in their life. It caused me to reflect on how life altering something like abuse can be. What I thought would be a simple documentary on skateboarding turned out to be a beautiful, thought provoking film. ★★★★

### Roma ###
Roma was one of the most beautiful films of 2018. The cinematography was stunning, with many great camera movements and long takes. The monochromatic palate of the film perfectly matched its tone. Not only were the visuals beautiful, but the story and characters were as well. The story is told through the eyes of a housemaid, Cleo, who with the family she cares for, goes through a great deal of pain and suffering that depicts the real social and biological pressures women deal with. This translates into a story that feels genuinely real. The emotions felt by the characters felt real. This realism reels you in as you get lost in the story. Cuarón proves again that he can write and direct a film with such precision and emotion behind it. ★★★★

### The Ballad of Buster Scruggs ###
The best word to describe The Ballad of Buster Scruggs is variety. The film has a lot of diversity in its themes, tone, and storylines, which makes for an engaging film. Sort of a Western anthology, The Ballad of Buster Scruggs is a collection of short stories that take place in the days of the Wild West. Throughout the short stories, extreme violence, funny moments, and unique characters provide a cohesive structure for the anthology. However, when dealing with a collection of stories, there are always ones that are better and ones that are worse. For me personally, I really enjoyed Meal Ticket, Mortal Remains, All Gold Canyon, and The Ballad of Buster Scruggs, but did not care for Near Algodones and The Girl Who Rattled. This difference in quality makes it hard to rate the film in total because the group of stories is only as good as its weakest link. If the Coen Brothers would have cut out one of the weaker storylines, I would have considered this an excellent anthology film (similar to Creepshow), but instead, the somewhat inconsistent quality hurt the film.

Despite some weaker storylines, there are a lot of other great things about this movie. The original songs in The Ballad of Buster Scruggs short were great, the set and costume design looked authentic, the gory violence was amusing, and the solid performances throughout helped create a good anthology film. ★★★½

### Bohemian Rhapsody ###
This film really feels like a greatest hits montage. Yes, you get to hear all the Queen songs you enjoy. Yes, you get to see many different moments of Freddie Mercury and Queen's career, BUT it feels really rushed, frazzled, and overgeneralized. The film has a problem not focusing on one thing. Whether it was the themes, plot points, stories, or characters, it really feels all over the place because of it. The viewer never gets to dive deep into the problems Freddie Mercury or the band faced. Everything just felt so surface level and generic. I have heard people say that the film feels like it could apply to any band, and I can agree with that somewhat. Parts of it are Queen specific, but those parts seemed like minor details. The structure and plot of the film are what feels like a generic "make a rock band" movie with similar beats to films such as Almost Famous. With a better script, director, and editing, this film could have been very compelling. I read another review that said the film should have been focused on the events proceeding the Live Aid Concert instead of Queen's whole career. I thought that was an excellent idea because it would have allowed the filmmaker to focus more on a few specific issues the band was facing and flesh out the characters a bit better. 

Of course, there were some good moments in the film. Rami Malik's performance is decent, nowhere near as good as other actors who have taken on musical personas, such as Jamie Fox's performance in Ray. The music is fun because well... it's Queen and they have some fun songs. The costume design is easily the best part about the film, but other than those few things, the quality of the film is rather mediocre. However, that does not mean Queen fans won't like the movie. I think many people, particularly Queen fans, will enjoy the film since it plays their greatest hits and has a straight forward story. If you are looking for something more than just a surface-level music biopic, this is not the film for you. ★★½