Kantian ethics can be utilized to more easily comprehend the choices that characters make in the film Memento. There are two specific concepts from Kantian ethics that best help elucidate the characters' decisions. The first concept from Kant is that deception and coercion are usually immoral because they are "two ways in which one can treat another person merely as a means &mdash; as an object to be manipulated." The other concept comes from Kant's Categorical Imperative that says an action is immoral if they cannot conceive of a world in which the maxim of their action can be consistently and universally applied. Using both of these core concepts from Kantian ethics, we can understand the ethics of some of the choices that characters make in Memento and better understand the film as a whole.

In Memento, there is a lot of deception and coercion from many of the characters throughout the film. A great example of a character in the film who uses deception and coercion is Natalie. She uses Leonard's memory condition and his drive to find and kill John G. The one scene that displays her use of coercion and deception to take advantage of Leonard is when she convinces Leonard to go after Dodd. In the scene, Leonard is staying at Natalie's house while she is at work; upon returning, Natalie says that a man name Dodd is coming after her. She then asks Leonard to get rid of Dodd for her, but Leonard is reluctant because he does not kill people for money. She then starts trying to get Leonard mad by talking poorly about his wife, calling him names, and making fun of his disability. This eventually causes Leonard to punch Natalie out of rage. This is exactly what she wanted because she leaves for a few seconds and comes back into the house saying that Dodd beat the shit out of her, but in reality, it was Leonard who did that. Because of Leonard's memory condition, he does not remember punching her, so he feels bad for her. She tells him that Dodd is going to kill her tomorrow if she does not have the drug money, which convinces Leonard to help and protect Natalie. Natalie uses Leonard and takes advantage of his disability to make him go kill Dodd for her. Through a Kantian standpoint, Natalie is using both deception and coercion to manipulate Leonard and use him. Therefore, Natalie is using Leonard as simply a means to get Dodd killed, which make Natalie's act an unethical one. Natalie is using Leonard as an object to be manipulated. Instead of treating Leonard as an end, as she should be doing, she treats him without any worth or dignity. According to Kantian ethics, everyone deserves dignity. It is a human right, and when someone takes away that right, that person is acting unethically. The choices and actions that Natalie does in this scene is what Kant teaches to be very unethical. She lies to Leonard and takes advantage of his disability to get him to do her bidding. Kant says that it is never acceptable to lie or coerce someone because it breaks the categorical imperative. Natalie is in desperation because she does not know where her boyfriend is and there is a man that is after her, so she sees Leonard as an easy target for her. She even hides all of the pens before she starts to talk to Leonard because she knows that if Leonard cannot write what she says down, he will not remember it. Initially she tries to convince Leonard to kill Dodd without deception, but when she realizes that Leonard would not, she takes a drastic action and decides to use him as a means to killing Dodd by deception. In this scene of the film, Natalie is acting against everything that Kant stands for.

Another character that uses deception and coercion to get what they want in the film and treats someone like a means is Leonard himself. Throughout the film, Leonard takes advantage of his own condition and lies to himself. The most obvious example of this is the last few scenes in the film. In this part of the film, Teddy breaks the news that Leonard has already killed the person who raped his wife, but he did not remember. Teddy also tells Leonard that his wife actually survived the attack and that Sammy Jenkins was actually a story of Leonard's life. All of these things made Leonard very mad at Teddy. Leonard then leaves the warehouse where they were at, and gets in his car. He says, "Can I just let myself forget what you told me?" He then out of anger decides to make Teddy (whose real name is John Gamble) his next John G. Leonard lies to himself about Sammy Jenkins, how he killed John G already, and about Teddy to make himself happier. Leonard does all of this to give himself a purpose and something to desire. If it was truly about getting revenge he would have been happy to hear that he already killed john G, but he is angry because that gets rid of his goal and his desire. This leads him to make up a new John G for him to hunt and kill. This makes me wonder how many John G's Leonard has already killed and how many times has he lied to himself. His decision to deceive himself is something that Kant would not have agreed was ethical. According to Kantian ethics, Leonard is, in a way, using himself as a means or an object. He lies to himself in order to be able to keep desiring and give his life purpose. His decision to make himself forget the truth about his life and live a life of lives is not giving himself the dignity and the worth that he deserves as a human. I think that he makes this unethical decision because he does not know what else he would do with his life. Killing all of these John G's gives his life purpose, and I think that he is willing to treat himself as a means in order to have that purpose. Of course, there is another way to look at this scene. It could be that Teddy is actually lying to Leonard making him the one that is coercing and deceiving Leonard, but in that case, both Teddy and Leonard are acting unethical because then both Teddy and himself are using Leonard as a means. Teddy is using him to make money off his crusades, and Leonard is using himself as a means in order to give his own life purpose. Either way, Leonard is deceiving himself from what the reality of his situation is. The deception that is used by so many of the characters in this film really makes most of the decisions unethical according to Kant. In the eyes of Kant, Leonard's actions in the final act of the film are very unethical and do not give himself the dignity that is his right.

Kantian ethics also brings up some the concept of universal law. The concept that comes from Kant's Categorical Imperative says that an action is immoral if someone cannot conceive of a world in which the maxim of this person's action can be consistently and universally applied. When applying this concept to Memento, a scene that I think of right away is when Leonard talks to the Hotel worker about his renting situation. In the scene, the hotel desk worker leads Leonard into his room and realizes that it is not his room. Leonard sees a bag with his handwriting in the room and says, "How come this is my handwriting then?" The Hotel worker comes clean by saying that he is also in room 304 and that his boss said that he should rent Leonard a second room because he would not remember anyway. Even though this is a minor scene in the film, I think that it brings up some interesting ethical questions. One thing I think this scene does is ask, "Is it ethical to take advantage of someone's disability and lie to them if you are in need of money?" Because in this scene, the hotel manager is using Leonard's memory disability to make him think that he is only checked into one room, but in reality, he is checked in to two rooms. I think that the maxim that comes out of this example is if you are in need of money, it is acceptable to take advantage of someone's disability by deception. If you take that maxim and apply the universal law, would it be ethical or unethical? If everyone who needed money lied to a disabled person to swindle money out of them, then the disabled people would never believe anyone that is trying to get their money causing this maxim to fall through when applied to the universal law. A good Kantian could also argue that you would be using that person with a disability as a means rather than an end. In the eyes of Kantian ethics, the hotel manager made an unethical decision by taking advantage of Leonard. The hotel manager would not want to be charged two rooms if he is only staying in one, so he should not be the expectation for his own maxim. Therefore, he is treating himself as an exception, which is an unethical act in Kantian ethics. This example of the film again shows how so many of the characters in the film use other people to get themselves ahead, even the minor characters.

An additional thought-provoking example that becomes more curious when the universal law is applied is the how Leonard lied to and conditioned himself to believe that Sammy Jenkins killed his wife and not that he killed his wife. Leonard lies to himself about how his wife to give him a purpose or as Teddy phrased it, gives you a "woman to pine for." He does this because it makes him happier. If he knew he killed his own wife, he would have no reason to kill a John G, making his life in a sense meaningless since he couldn't work an actual job. When Teddy tells Leonard the truth about his wife, he rejects it because he does not want to accept the fact that he is the cause of her death. He purposely forgets that he killed his wife in order to make his life happier. This scene is fascinating because it brings up an interesting maxim: it is acceptable to lie to yourself to make yourself happy. Now of course this maxim becomes uninteresting when you use the first concept that was discussed because if you are deceiving yourself then you are using yourself as a means, which is unethical. Therefore, I think that if you look at the maxim when only applying the universal concept I think it becomes interesting. So what would happen if this maxim were applied universally? In my opinion, I think we already live in a world where this happens. Many people lie to make themselves happy. People lie to themselves about their dreams, desires, and goals often. There are various reasons that people lie to make themselves happy, but the point is that it happens. If this maxim was applied to the universal law, I think it would pass. His action of how he lied to himself was not ethical, but it is not out of the ordinary in today's society. This example demonstrates how a maxim could pass on the universal law, but become unethical if they are using themselves or someone else as a means instead of an end.

All of these examples show how Kantian ethics can be used to help understand a few choices that were made by characters and to better understand the film as a whole. One of the things that I realized while analyzing this film was the fact that most of the characters decisions throughout the film are considered unethical when Kantian ethics is applied. Practically every character deceives himself, herself, or someone else at one point or another. Even the minor characters use deception to take advantage of other people. I tried to look for an ethical decision made in this film according to Kant, but I really could not find anything. Despite this, it is still an interesting film to analyze because it raises many questions that are relevant to today's society. Overall, I think that applying Kantian ethics can be useful in understanding the different choices that the characters made throughout Memento.

### Resources Used to Write This ###
* George Sher's "Morality and Rationality" in Ethics: Essentail Readingsin Moral Theory
* Mark Timmons' "Seven Essential Moral Theories" in Disputed Moral Issues: A Reader