Utilitarianism can be used to more easily understand the choices that the characters make in the film Edge of Tomorrow. There are two specific concepts from Utilitarianism that I think help explain the characters' decisions best. The first is from Epicurus who says that we will often tolerate pain in order to arrive at a greater pleasure and that we will often avoid a pleasure if it is likely to lead to greater pain. The other concept comes from Bentham's "hedonist utilitarianism" which claims, "An action is right if it would produce at least as high a net balance of pleasure (or reduction of pain) as would any other alternative action one might do instead. Using both of these utilitarian concepts, we can understand the ethics of a couple of choices that characters make in the film Edge of Tomorrow.

Throughout Edge of Tomorrow, many people tolerate pain in order to arrive at a greater pleasure. One character in particular suffers a tremendous amount throughout the film with the main goal of saving the world, and that character is Cage. There are two things in particular that Cage goes through that causes a lot suffering so he can save the world. The first one is that he decides to leave Rita out of his plan and tries to save the world without her. He does this because he realizes that no matter what, Rita cannot be saved when they get to the helicopter. This causes Cage not to talk to Rita the next time he wakes up. He realizes that he cannot do it without her; so instead of dragging her along and having her suffer, he decides to leave her be and to go on without her. Cage realizes that she cannot be saved, so he understands that she must die on the beach. Cage does exactly what Epicurus says that a good utilitarian should do, to compare likely consequences of his actions and pick an outcome that leads to a greater pleasure. Cage has two choices to either bring Rita with him and watch her die over and over again while gaining no progress, or he can leave her back and accept the fact that she will die on the beach, but he will save the world. Cage makes the decision that is the greater pleasure. He decides to leave her and in doing so goes through the pain of losing someone he loves, but in return, he gets the opportunity to save the world and millions of lives. In the scene where he decides not to get Rita involved, the non-diegetic music delivers the feeling that Cage is sad and that he cannot help her, but he understands what he must do. They show a close up of Cage's face to show his emotion of frustration and sadness as he deals with the acceptance of her death. At this point in the film, Cage is acting as a good utilitarian.

Another example of Cage acting as a good utilitarian and using the idea of people often tolerate pain in order to arrive at a greater pleasure is that he goes through pain and suffering every day in order to save the world. Each day Cage is required to die, and that puts a toll on him. Every morning that he wakes up, he is usually screaming in agony. Cage also receives many different injuries throughout the film. When he is training, he breaks his back and his legs. On the beach, he is impaled by the mimics and gets a hole in his chest. Cages just does not get physical injuries, but he goes through a lot of mental pain as well. He watches many people die around him day after day. The worst is that he has to watch Rita, someone who he cares dearly for, die many different times, and I am sure that it was not easy for Cage to go through that. For example, after the scene where Rita dies in the farmhouse and she tells Cage her middle name, Cage wakes up and you can see the emotions of sadness and loss on his face. In fact, the Private that always called Cage a maggot does not say anything to Cage and just hands him his boots because he can see it one the face of Cage that he is in a lot of pain. Cage goes through all of this suffering and pain to get to the greater pleasure of saving millions of lives. Throughout the film, Cage has many opportunities to just give up and decide not to die thus getting rid of his ability, which would give up the chance of saving the world. During one of the days, Cage goes to a local pub to clear his mind. Cage could have decided to just stay there and give up on the greater pleasure of saving the world; however, he does not do that. He realizes that he has a special gift and that only he can save the world, so he fights through all of the pain that he has to go for on a daily basis and saves the world. He avoids a greater pain and succeeds in brings the max amount of happiness and pleasure to the world, which is the main goal of a good utilitarian.

Another concept of utilitarianism that is demonstrated in the film Edge of Tomorrow is Bentham's idea of Hedonist utilitarianism. That is the idea that "an action is right if it would produce at least as high a net balance of pleasure (or reduction of pain) as would any other alternative action one might do instead." This concept seems to show through many of Rita's choices throughout the film. One choice in particular that I think uses this concept is Rita's choice of trying not to get to know Cage personally. Ever since meeting Cage, Rita has avoided getting to know him on a personal level. There were many scenes where Cage tried to get to know her, but Rita bluntly rejected him. For example, Cage tries to set up a nice time for them to sit down, talk, and enjoy some coffee in the farmhouse, but Rita does not go for this idea. She is determined to continue on their mission and keep getting closer to the Omega. Rita even says to him at one point that she wants to kill Cage, and start the day over so they can get farther along, but Cage seems hurt by this because he wants to enjoy the time they have together when she does not. Another example of this is in the car to the farmhouse. Cage tells Rita that he knows all of this information about her, and Rita says that none of it is true and that she does not like to talk. It seems as though Rita is solely focused on the mission, and she has no desire to get to know Cage. All she wants to do is use cage to save the world, and once they are done with that, they will go their separate ways. This is a very utilitarian thing to do and a form of Hedonist utilitarianism. Rita probably does not want to get to know Cage because she knows from experience that it is not a good idea to get to know someone that you are fighting a war with. She also makes this decision not to get to know Cage because it will bring about more happiness. If Rita is attached to Cage, it could be hard for her if he dies, so it makes it easier for her and prevents pain if she does not get to know Cage. This action of not getting to know Cage also reduces pain because she has to witness him die often, so I am sure it would be a lot harder to see him die so many times if she was closer to him. Her actions cause a reduction of net pain and increase her ability to do this without Cage if she has to. This makes the decision between saving Cage and saving the world easier for Rita as well. Her action of avoiding getting to know Cage is important, and is what a good utilitarian would do in her circumstance.

Another good example of Bentham's idea of Hedonist utilitarianism is right at the end of the film when two men sacrifice themselves for the greater good. Griff can barely move and does not think he will be useful for the rest of the mission to go and kill the Omega, so he says "I'm not going to be any good in there mate, let me buy us some time" (Liman, Edge of Tomorrow) as he looks at a large fuel tank. This leads to Skinner not wanting Griff to be alone, so Skinner stays back with him to help buy time. They both go out in a blaze of glory where they help buy the rest of the team some time and take out many mimics. They both end up dying when they decide to blow up the fuel tank behind them, which clears the area for the other team. I think Griff's choice of staying behind, and buying time for the group was a good utilitarian thing to do. Griff made the choice to reduce the amount of pain by deciding that he was useless from then on and making it possible for the rest of the team to save the world. If he did not make that choice, the team might not have made it into the Luv and the overall pain in the world would increase. That makes Griff's choice a right action in the eyes of Hedonist utilitarianism because his action produced a higher net balance of pleasure (or reduction of pain) compared to his other option of staying with the group and not giving his life for the sake of human existence. As for Skinner's choice, I am not sure what to think of it. It could be utilitarian because without his help Griff might not have bought the rest of the team enough time to get inside the Luv or it might not be utilitarian because Skinner seemed to do it because of Griff was his friend. Either way both of them made a great sacrifice, which increased the overall net pleasure in the world.

All of these examples have shown how utilitarianism can be used to help understand a few choices that were made by characters throughout the film Edge of Tomorrow. I think this film mainly has utilitarian characters in it. From some perspectives Rita was the one that was the most utilitarian, but I would argue that Cage is just as utilitarian as she is. Of course, Rita was always more focused on the end mission, but Cage went through a lot of pain for the greater good of the world. Of course, he got side tracked by Rita occasionally, but he did make many utilitarian decisions that led to a greater amount of pleasure in the world. Overall, I think Edge of Tomorrow is a perfect film to show how utilitarianism can be very useful and lead for a greater amount of happiness in the world.

### Resources Used to Write This ###
* Jeremy Bentham's "The Principle of Utility" in Ethics: Essentail Readingsin Moral Theory
* Epicurus's Letter to Menoeceus