The race to watch as many Oscar nominated film continues, and this week, I watched a diverse group of films: two feature lengths, one animated short, and one documentary short. If you have not seen my last post that discussed what the Oscar Death Race is, here is the [link](/post/week-one-of-the-oscar-death-race) to get caught up. As I continue the race, I have set a few goals to reach since I do not think I will be able to watch all 59 films (since I am a college student who would like to pass my classes as well as have some money for food). My first and primary goal of the race is to see all of the best picture nominees. Ever since I started watching the Oscars in middle school, I have never seen all the best picture nominees prior to the award ceremonies. Well this year, I think it is possible. I have seen eight out of the nine so far, leaving Phantom Thread, which just came to my local theatre! I think this goal will be completed, so I've developed another goal that might be a bit more challenging. My second goal for this award season is to see every film that is nominated for two or more awards this year. I made a list on Letterboxd to track my progress; you can find it at here. To help complete these two goals as well as try to finish the race, these are the films that I watched in week two:

### Beauty and the Beast ###
I feel like there is not a lot to say about this film. It was a live action remake of the fantastic 1991 original Beauty and the Beast (emphases on the remake). I felt like this remake did not really bring new life to a story like a remake is supposed to; it just slapped a few new songs in there and called it good. I think that the whole live action Disney thing is a cash grab, but this isn't the time or place to discuss this… To be fair, there were things I did enjoy about this film. I thought the way they did some of the old songs like "Be Our Guest" and "Tale as Old as Time" were done very well. I also thought the film was visually pleasing and the costume/set design was whimsical. Overall, I think this as an average film that did not give justice to the original except for a few spots here and there. ★★★

How I watched it: Netflix

### Dear Basketball ###
Being a Kobe Bryant fan when I was in High School, I enjoyed watching this animated short. I thought the film, which is based off a poem written by Kobe, was inspiring and reminiscent of his successful career. The hand drawn animation style was well done and adds an imaginative look to the short. I would recommend this film to any fans of Kobe or basketball in general. ★★★★

How I watched it: Online at go90

### Edith+Eddie ###
Edith+Eddie is a heartwarming, yet heartbreaking short documentary about a relationship between a recently married couple who are both in their 90s. The doc tells the story of their fight against social workers who want to force Edith to move away from her love Eddie. The documentary keeps you invested in there cute relationship for the entire 29 minute runtime. As a viewer, I felt all types of emotions including sadness, joy, and frustration while watching this film, and that is one of the reasons I liked it. The film makes you feel so much. Overall, I think the film is a great short doc that I would recommend to most. ★★★★

How I watched it: Online at MSN

### The Big Sick ###
The Big Sick was one of my favorite movies of 2017. The highlight of this film was the screenplay and the story presented. Based on the true story of Kumail Nanjiani's relationship of how he fell in love with his now wife, the film does a fantastic job drawing the viewer in and making them care about its characters. One of the reasons I think the plot was so successful includes how developed the relationships between the characters were. Many of the relationships commented on different social topics, including race, marriage, family, dedication, and love, which gave the relationships more depth and helped me as a viewer relate to the characters. One of the social topics I found particularly interesting was how Kumail dealt with having his family want him to marry a Pakistani girl. I was not very familiar with Pakistan culture, so I thought this film had an interesting viewpoint on what it was like to immigrate to the United States from Pakistan.

Another aspect of the film that I enjoyed was the acting. Kumail Nanjiani, Holly Hunter, and Ray Romano were especially fantastic to watch. They all seemed so natural in their role (it helps that Kumail played himself). I also found the movie hilarious. The standup bits were excellent, and Kumail's character was particularly funny. Of course, this movie was not perfect. I would say that the way the film is shot or edited was not particularly amazing, but to be fair, it is a romantic comedy, so I was not expecting amazing cinematography. When taking this into consideration, I would still say that it was one of my favorites in 2017, and I would recommend this film to most people because I think there is something for everyone to learn and relate to in it. ★★★★

How I watched it: Amazon Prime

Those were the films I watched this week. Please remember to read next weeks to keep up with my progress. Thanks for reading!