Once the Academy announces the Oscar nominations, Redditors come together to share opinions, film access locations, and more to complete the goal of watching all the nominated films before the ceremony. The subreddit dedicated to this is [oscardeathrace](https://www.reddit.com/r/oscarsdeathrace), and this year I decided on joining, attempting to gain more by connecting with others who had similar goals and see how many of the nominees I could watch. If you look at the subreddit, many of the posts are discussing the nominees or asking where to watch one. You will see me contribute there every so often if I find something useful.

Throughout my journey to watch the nominated films, I will post weekly updates with thoughts on each new viewing. I will also talk about where I watched it and link to it if applicable. A few things to note, I do not torrent or download movies illegally. I am in love with film and try to support the creators in any way I can, which means I am always willing to pay a couple bucks to see the film. That does not mean you are a horrible person for doing so; I just chose not to. I also think it is unlikely I will be able to watch all 59 nominated films before the ceremony, but I am going to try.

Out of the 59 films nominated, I had seen 11 before the nominations were announced. After week one from January 23-30th, I had seen five more. These are my thoughts on the films I saw this past week.

### Call Me By Your Name ###
Call Me by Your Name was a gorgeous film with an enjoyable but simple story. A coming of age story about a gay man who falls in love with an older student; this film is a slow burn. It has a relatively slow pace, but the film is still captivating with its beautiful shots and interesting characters. This film excels at character development. You can see both Chalamet's and Hammer's character change the way they feel about and act toward each other throughout the film. I also think that the acting was very good. Timothy Chalamet, Armie Hammer, and Micheal Stuhlbarg had great performances. All of them really displayed their character's emotions well. The last thing I really enjoyed was the cinematography. I thought the visuals were very beautiful, partially because of the amazing location choices and partially because of the lighting and camera work. Now the reason that I gave this film three and a half stars and not higher is because of the few things I did not enjoy. I thought the film had a hard time ending. It kept acting as if it was about to be over, and then an additional scene would start up. I enjoyed how the film concluded once it did, but before that I kept feeling restless. This film also did not make me feel as many emotions as other recent coming of age stories (e.g., Moonlight). I felt less connected to the characters even though I thought they were great. Overall, I enjoyed this film and can see why many people loved it, but I do not think it added anything new to the coming of age teen romance genre. ★★★½

How I watched it: In Theatres

### The Boss Baby ###
The Boss Baby was definitely an interesting ride. There were things I disliked in this film as well as enjoyed. Let us start with the bad. The plot for The Boss Baby is well... odd and not that strong. There are a few problems I have with it. First, it is difficult to figure out when the boss baby's older brother is just imagining crazy stuff happening or not. There are scenes that elude to the idea that the whole thing is Tim's (the big brother) imagination, and others that make it seem like he does have a boss for a baby brother. Another issue I have is with the plot; it is very convoluted. There is a conflict between puppies and babies as well as an odd ending; it makes it for a weird movie experience. Of course, this is an animated movie targeted towards children, so you can only expect so much from the plot and I understand that.

As for the good, this film had some genuinely funny and emotional moments. I laughed at some of the jokes while watching the film. Some of the jokes were very childish, but again, what do you expect out of a movie like this? This movie also has some touching moments and leaves a good message to its viewers. I also really enjoyed Alec Baldwin; he does a wonderful job and is easily the highlight. Overall, I think this film has its moments, some good and some not so good. ★★★

How I watched it: Netflix

### Darkest Hour ###
Historical films have always been a soft spot for me, and Darkest Hour is no exception. The story of Winston Churchill and his promotion to Prime Minister of England during World War II, this film lets you see Churchill struggle and succeed. I enjoyed seeing the British political side of the war, and learned a lot about Churchill and how the English government handled WWII. I was captivated the entire time; the story even became inspiring towards the end. I found this film to be complementary to Dunkirk, it included the same period, only the political side of the story. This film added to my understanding of Dunkirk as a whole.

I also thought that Gary Oldman's performance was grand. His delivery as Churchill was captivating, and you could tell that he was dedicated to nailing the performance. The makeup team also did an unbelievable job transforming Oldman and definitely deserves the best makeup award. As for the films negatives, I think the film did not excel at thinking outside the box; it was similar to other historical film biopics I have seen. I also think that the film had a few parts that dragged a bit. Other than that, I enjoyed the film. ★★★★

How I watched it: In Theatres

### Heroin(e) ###
Heroin(e) is a short documentary that tells the inspiring story of three different women in West Virginia who help people cope with Heroin addition. The documentary is informative and very emotionally captivating throughout the 39-minute runtime. It displayed some truly heartbreaking events, comeback stories, and some inspiring women. Hats off to the documentary team on this one for taking one of the biggest issues in the United States and showing how it affects so many across the country. This is worth watching for anyone who enjoys documentaries, loves stories about strong women, or is interested in the drug epidemic. ★★★★

How I watched it: Netflix

### The Shape of Water ###
Guillermo del Toro, knocked his newest film, The Shape of Water, out of the park. The film is a magical ride from scene to scene that mesmerizes the viewer with amazing cinematography, beautiful visuals, and an astounding soundtrack. That's not all; the acting in this film is fantastic. Sally Hawkins, Michael Stuhlbarg, Doug Jones, and Richard Jenkins are all amazing in this film, but my two personal favorites were Octavia Spencer and Michael Shannon. Octavia was hilarious in this movie as well as a great supporting character to Hawkins since her character was mute. I thought Shannon did a great job creating a compelling villain. You hated his character for the things he did, but you couldn't help but love watching him. 

Another thing I loved about The Shape of Water is how it played with genres. It was mostly a sci-fi/fantasy romance, but also included thriller aspects and (spoiler) musical aspects. I always love when films cross genres, and this film does it wonderfully. It is really what makes the film as unique as it is (that and del Toro's style as well).

I still haven't discussed the story, which was also fantastic. The plot, which flows very nicely and keeps you entertained throughout, reminds me of an old monster movie turned love story. The film has a strong message about relationships and people who are different, which makes this film very timely. Overall, I loved this film and would recommend this to anyone, since I think that there is something that everyone can take out of this film. ★★★★

How I watched it: In Theatres

Those were the films I watched this week. Please remember to read week two once it is released, and good luck with the death race if you chose to participate.